Hi within this lecture we're going to discuss what is for your base and how we can leverage.
It's in our apps so you have seen the intro with your right.
You have seen the database you have seen the authentication module and we gonna do that all with firebase.
I'm going to explain how to unify your base what kind of features firebase provide us and we're going
to actually learn how to integrate firebase to our X code projects during this couple of lectures.
In order to do that of course we're going to start by creating an X code project and then we're going
to go to Firebase and open a new project for us and then connect the two projects together.
So let's say create a new project and we're good to go with single view app this time again.
And for product name I'm going to choose instead clone Firebase and in fact we're not even going to
use a single new app we're going to use a tabbed controller in here and actually we could have chosen
that tapped controller in the first place but I'm not going to do that.
I'm going to show you have to manually at this.
So let's go for was complete.
And here we go.
This is our project.
So let me make this into full screen.
OK.
And before we go on and write any code or before we go on and do our user interface let's open fire
bays dot google dot com.
So as you may have already understood this is a service by Google.
So Google provides this five year base.
So this is kind of for all in one solution in which we can get a cloud server and also we get the back
end services with this cloud server as well.
I'm going to explain all of this in detail but first let us create our firebase project in order to
do that you have to come here and sign in with your gmail account.
After that you will see a go to console button here of which you can click on and go to your firebase
dashboard.
And if you don't have a Gmail account please click here to create one.
It's completely free.
So you can get a gmail account and you can use Google services along the way.
So if you click on that go to console you will see a screen like this.
So I have some existing projects in here but I believe yours is going to be much more clearer.
All you have to do is just play here on this plus sign.
So in order to create a new project and we're going to choose the settings of our project as well.
So I believe we should do that together of two.
You hit on the plus button you will just enter a project name first.
So I'm going to go for insta clone firebase.
OK.
And then we're going to say continue.
It will ask us if we want Google Analytics for our five year base project as well.
So this is a great tool actually.
It lets us just analyze the statistics of our app like we can do some HIV testings we can do some user
segmentation is if we put our app on AppStore it will be beneficial for us to track all of these numbers.
That's how many users clicked on our app how many users using our app.
So we can choose to go with this but I'm not going to do that right now because if we do that it will
ask us to create a Google Analytics account as well.
And in order not to make things further complicated I'm just going to go with not right now and don't
worry we can actually change this later on we can add this feature later on.
So if you publish your app on the App Store and a future in a need of some analytics for your app then
you can come back here to add it.
So I'm going to create this project and it will take some time because it will create the whole project
for me.
And we're going to see what five year bases once it gets done.
So here you go.
We can just click on continue and it shall take us to the project dashboard and actually didn't.
As you can see if you come up in a situation like this you can refresh the page and you will see the
project appearing here and then you can actually choose the project to go to your project dashboard
so here you go.
We now see the insta clone for your base.
Let me just click on this and this is our project dashboard.
So first thing to do is to add our fire base to the X code but we're not going to do that right now
but rather we gonna discuss what is for your base and why we're using it.
Again this is a service by Google.
Okay but it does.
It just doesn't provide a cloud database.
It also comes up with SDK software development kits so that we can easily connect our X code project
to this firebase cloud server so that we can communicate between the server we can add these data to
database we can add some images to the storage.
We can do create some users with the authentication module and everything.
As you can see we have different modules on the left hand side.
We can create users with authentication we can use databases we can use storage and we're going to learn
them all and in here why do we even need a cloud server.
For example let me suppose that I'm going to share a post I'm going to add I'm going to choose a new
picture from the photo gallery.
I'm going to add a comment and I'm going to share it with other people.
So if I use core data for example it won't make sense because it will be stored on my phone.
Right.
So in order to let other people see my things I have to put this on the Internet.
So in that cloud server so that I can go to the other device and download this upload the pictures and
comments and everything so that I can see those all of these information in other devices as well so
that all of the devices will be connecting to these same clothes and network same clothes database.
So five actually provides us with that.
So in here you see these storage for example we store some media like images videos whatever were you
can come into your mind.
So in here for example you see functions if you want to run a code in your server rather than in your
app you can do that with firebase as well.
Of course it's not in the scope of these cars because it requires some backyards developments like Javascript
but we're not going to go into that of course we're going to focus on building our app with X code.
But it's possible.
So firebase has a lot of opportunities.
We're going to be focusing on authentication databases and storage in here and we going to learn the
most important methods and functions regarding those modules but actually firebase provides us more
than that.
For example as you can see we can integrate this to Android apps.
We can integrate firebase to the IRS apps and web apps as well.
So if you're going to make an app in which you will put store in the Google Play so you're going to
develop it for android and AOS and for that you can use for your base.
So that three of these platforms will all have one database one storage one authentication module so
users can actually sign in India and write on India U.S. and India app so you can build your own system
with Fi your base in a way you want.
Another great feature of Firebase is that this is so fast.
So we're going to be working with a database called fires store and lead fi use so you can easily upload
data and download data within less than a second.
So it's ideal to create some real time databases real time apps like chatting app like if you want to
get a service in a less than a second then five ways is the way to go.
Later on the next step would be to actually integrate our X code project with this five year based project
because we have created this.
Now I have to integrate this SDK software development kids to my project in order to communicate with
the server and in order to do that we are going to have to learn something called Coco Pops.
Let's do that in the next lecture.